So it's username time, and for that, back in the message bubble, we can make sure that besides outputting
the main message, we also output the user name of the user who wrote the message.
For this, I'll actually wrap text here into a column because I now want to have another text above
it, so let's add this text and this should now be the username.
So here.
I expect a new property, a string, which is the user name, and that should also be passed to the
message bubble as an argument.
So this username should be output here, and we can also set some text style here and for a start.
That simply set the font weight here to font weight, not bold.
It's a very simple style that should show the user name above the main text.
Now, the problem is that at the moment we're not getting this username and messages here.
We are forwarding the text and the check, whether it's us or not.
But we're not forwarding the user name because we don't have the user name of the user who created a
message.
The only thing we have on Firebase for a given message is the idea of the user.
We got the dummy IDs and we got the real I.D. now, actually to avoid any problems, let's delete all
documents with that dummy user I.D. of a so quickly delete those free documents.
So today only have documents, only have messages by real users.
So that's the second one.
And here's the third one.
Still, we only have the user IDs here, not the user names.
And of course, I want to output the real user name here and not the I.D. Having this here in the chat
app would probably not be that useful.
Now, of course, we can use the I.D. to get the username that belongs to it.
This is certainly something we can do and for that we can forward.
Let's say the user I.D. here to message bubble as a second argument and in message bubble, change that
name to user ID to make it clear that we're actually not getting the user name right now, but the user
ID.
So now we have the user I.D. here and in the message bubble, we could now utilized his user ID to fetch
the actual user name.
We could say that we wrapped this text here where we want to output the user name with a stream builder.
And then we reach out to the users collection and look for the document with that ID.
Now, I'll do that, but I'll actually replace Stream Builder here with Future Builder because I don't
want to set up an ongoing stream.
Instead, I'll just want to fetch that username once there is no need to set up a life listener, it's
not going to change because we don't even have a functionality to change our user name here.
Now, the future here is that we reach out to Firestorm.
And for that, you need to add the imports to cloud firestorm.
So we reach out to Firestorm dot instance and then we reach out to the users collection for a certain
user I.D. So on that collection, I now use document to point at a certain document and I want to point
at the document with that user.
Keep in mind that in Firebase we have a users collection and we have documents where the names or the
IDs indeed are our user IDs.
So we can look for is such a document and document on its own does not give us a future yet, but we
can call, get on this and get will simply get the data off this document and it will do this through
a future.
Now, then, we have our builder where we have our data snapshot here, and that snapshot will eventually
hold data about that user.
So here we can, of course, check the snapshot connection state.
And if we're still waiting, so if our connection status waiting, we could return some dummy text where
we say loading something like this.
And once we got the actual data here, we output snapshot dot data and that will give us access to this
document.
And there it's the username name field we're interested.
So snapshot dot data.
And then this is a map where we access user name like this.
If we do this and we saved as indeed we see the user name here.
Now let's make sure we can all read the text if it's on the same color background.
So for that, I'll set the color of the username to the same color as a message text.
Like this.
And now it is readable.
And now maybe also for some alignment to make sure this is not centered like it currently seems to be.
We can control this on the column with the cross axis alignment, and the alignment actually should
depend on whether it's by us or not.
If it's by us, it should be on the right.
So alignment and if it's by the other user, it should be on the left.
So alignment start.
So here on the Cross is a line of the column we can check if it's us and if it is us all said cross
axis alignment end to move it to the right and otherwise cross the line and start to move it to the
left.
We now save that this looks pretty good.
Now, the text should also be aligned to the right.
So on the message text, we can add, text a line and also check if it's me and if it's me, I'll send
text a line here to end an otherwise text a line to start.
And now the message text itself also should be aligned correctly.
So that's good.
Now we see the username, but this approach has a flaw.
And by the way, you don't see it on the left because this is not connected to our development server.
Does this old snapshot of the app, which is still running here, but this approach has a flaw here.
And do you know which floor that is?
The flaw is that I'm fetching that username here in the message bubble, I'm fetching it with my future
builder, which I did here, this one.
And that means that for every new message bubble that's being rendered, I reach out to Firebase and
I fetch that data.
This can be good or bad.
This can hammer does API quite a bit.
Now, the good news is, since this isn't a list, it should only fetch to username for the messages
that are actually being rendered.
And in addition, Firestar were also caches data locally.
So it's not going to make a million requests here, probably.
Instead, it should cache data and not send too many requests still.
This is not something you might want here.
You maybe don't want to send a new request for every message bubble that's being rendered.
Therefore, we could argue that we don't want to fetch this here, but that instead when we create a
message, so when we create a new message here and a new message widget, we want a store to use her
name next to the user ID so that we already have the user name here and we don't need to fetch it again.
This would mean that we only need to fetch it once when we send this message instead of every time when
we render a message.
And we could even simplify it as more theoretically we could.
Also featured once when our application starts up and then stored as in some applied state or anywhere
else, wherever you want.
So you can really optimize this quite a bit if you want to.
Here, I will fetch it whenever we create a new message, so for that all.
Get my user data by awaiting for a firestorm, for instance.
And then reaching out to the users collection for document with my user ID here, which I get from the
user I fetched.
And then get that's the same I did hear in the message bubble.
It's the same future, but now I get this year for the user who's sending a message and all the user
data I resolve for which I wait, I'll be able to get.
That username, because that is that user document in the user's collection and now the user name is
also being stored in every new message which be stored in firestorm.
Now, that means that when we fetch all messages here in the messages widget with the Stream Builder,
those messages will already include the user names, which are fetched because they will be part of
the messages themselves.
So that means that now we can just forward user name here.
To our message bubble, because we add such a username field here when we send a message and therefore
in the message bubble, I can renamed is back to username also here, and we can assume that this already
is the final username.
So now in a message bubble, we can get rid of that future builder here, can get rid of all of that.
And instead, we just have our text here.
Just like this, and we don't have snapshot data username, but we used the username property, which
we now have in the message bubble.
Now, of course, this won't work with our existing messages, which is why I'm getting an error here,
because all those existing chat messages don't have the username field.
That's all the leads doesn't hire Chet collection so that it's going to be recreated.
Let's restart the app now.
And let's now send a message test.
And also send one here.
And of course, from the left device, I'm still getting an error because I'm running an old version
of the app here, so that version doesn't attach to user name yet.
So I'm quickly going to do this manually.
Here in the chat collection.
On that document, which doesn't have the username field, I will manually add this field for now to
fix this error and set this to Maximilien, for example, added reload the app and you see that this
now works correctly.
So that works, we're going to run a more recent version of the app on Android soon, too, and with
that, we should have a relatively efficient way of storing and fetching the user name and displaying
the username.
Now, later will also show an image of the user.
But for the moment, this is good enough.
This is fine like that.
So with all of that, we got that finished chat functionality.
We can send messages, we can receive messages.
This list is updating whenever we get a new message.
We got our authentication in place.
I would say it is now time to move on to image upload with the firebase cloud storage.